# PSO-for-MPPT-in-PV-using-Matlab
Even with significant progress in the maximum power point (MPP) research area, the necessity to improve the existing methods becomes mandatory to increase energy conversion efficiency. Since the power–voltage (P-V) characteristic curve of photovoltaic (PV) arrays has multiple peaks under partially shaded (PS) conditions, the conventional MPP tracking (MPPT) control methods have the difficult challenge of locating the global MPP (GMPP) among many local MPPs (LMPPs). In recent years, numerous research papers have been focused on techniques to efficiently track the GMPP and alleviate the partial shading effects. One of the most popular evolutionary search techniques is particle swarm optimization (PSO) which provides high tracking speed and the ability to operate under different environmental conditions. For solving some conventional PSO techniques' common weaknesses, several modifications and improvements have emerged in the past years. This paper provides a comparative and comprehensive review of some relevant PSO-based methods taking into account the effects of important key issues such as particle initialization criteria, search space, convergence speed, initial parameters, performance with and without partial shading, and efficiency. The simulation results are validated under numerous test conditions using MATLAB code and Simulink package.

PSO is widely accepted among these methods for tracking MPP because of its simple structure, parallel processing, good robustness, easy implementation, fast computation capability, and high probability of finding the global optimal solution. The metaheuristic approach of this method makes it independent of the output characteristics of PV systems. Because of its good performance in multiple-peak functions optimization, PSO is very suitable for MPPT control of PV systems under PSC. Although the PSO method introduces higher possibilities to reach global peak under shading conditions, the convergence to the optimal operating region is not always guaranteed.

Several PSO-based MPPT algorithms have been developed for PV systems to solve the multiple local MPP problem. Deterministic PSO (DPSO), adaptive perceptive PSO (APPSO), improved PSO (IPSO) and modified swarm optimization (MPSO) are some of the more notable research works.

Taking inspiration from the flocking behavior of birds, Np particles are used to search for the maximum or minimum values of an objective function. The particles are randomly initialized and start to move in a given search space with a certain velocity. Then, for each iteration, a new velocity value is calculated based on the current velocity, the previous best position, and the global best position. Later, the new position is updated by using the previous position and the new velocity value. During this optimization process, the agents are spread over the search space in different directions.
